--- 
layout: default
title: words
category: foreign-language
comments: true
---


# Language Itself
phonetic symbol 音标，拼音  
liaison [lɪ'ezɑn]  
elision [ɪ'lɪʒ(ə)n] skim  
synaeresis [sɪ'nɛərəsɪs]  
slur(swallow eat) your words 吞音  
clarity  
without splutter(吞音) or stammer  

gerund  
infinitive  
(simple) present tense (past, future)  
present continuous/progressive tense (past, past)  
present perfect tense (past, future)  
present perfect continuous/progressive tense (future, past)  
active voice (passive)  
inversion  
emphatic sentence  
singlar plurality  
conjunction  
function words (content)  
modal verb  
link verb  
notional verb  
auxiliary verb  
(in)transitive verb  
main clause/sentence (subordinate)  
attributive clause (adverbia, subjective, appositive)  
adverbial cluase of concession  
reflexive pronoun  
root form  
past and past participle forms of verbs  
the possessive case  
tone mood  
accent stress  
letter character  
alphabet  
vowel  
consonant  
definite article (indefinite)  
countable  
uncontable  
general question (rhetorical special altertive exclamatory disjunctive)  
imperative sentence (declarative)  
rhetorical: punning is one of the most common ~ devices used in news headlines.  
rhetoric n  
non-predicate verbs as modifiers 非谓语动词作修饰语  
un/cn uncountable/countable  
punctuation mark/symbol

object complement  
Subject, predicate, object, objective complement, attribute, adverbial modifier, predicative, appositive. 主语，谓语，宾语，宾语补足语，定语，状语，表语，同位语  

# pharmaceutical [.fɑrmə'sutɪk(ə)l]
heat-clearing & detoxify(ing)  
clear away heating and toxic matercial  
cooling blood to stop bleeding  
hawthorn promoting digestion  
(de)swell weight loss  
take some anodyne ['ænə.daɪn] to relive the pain  
sore throat; acute/chronic pharyngitis [.ferən'dʒaɪtɪs]   
acupuncture and moxibustion 针法和灸法   
acupuncture point = acupoint  
acupressure 穴位指压/针压法  
a certain feeling of numbness and distension 麻木和发胀  
non-drug therapy : hypnosis massage cupping  
medical health-care device  
meridians and collaterals as well as viscera(organs) 经络及其脏腑  
Osteal Arthritis  
break the **insomnia** cycle without the need for **sedatives** and sleeping tablets  

# health
**health problem**  
ask a friend for **health advice**  
hight blood pressure  
frequent headaches  
I lose my breath when I walk up the stairs. What would you suggest?  
You should see a doctor  
You could change your diet  
You might wanna get more exercise  
You visit a **healthcare professional**  
discuss health problem  
headache stomachache backache teethache migraine  
cold fever cough  
high/low blood pressure  
bruise disjoint arthritis   
vomiting diarrhea  
sore throat  
cancer diabetes  
allergies fainting  
insomnia  
bad eyesight  
  
# financial(e) * fortune
deposit  
withdraw  
amount  
balance  
transfer  
print receipt  

on-site service  
door-to-door service  
open/close my account  
worry-free service  
nothing to worry about  
the wind beneath my wings  
strong/powerful bacing/back  
be there for you  

You are a potential customer at a back
How much overdraft protection will I have?  
We'll cover up to 100$ 

Choosing a Bank
What's more important to you: 'overdraft protection' or 'high interest rates'? Investigate the services of a new bank with your classmates.

What extra services does your bank offer?  
Are there any other services that you would like to have?  

* online banking
* debit card
* overdraft protection
* free ATM withdrawls

What are you top three most important banking services?  
I like to make big purchases and make small monthly payments : credit card  
I want to make transfers, payments and inquiries from my computer. : online banking  
I need access to my money when I'm traveling to other country. : overseas withdrawls  
I need the freedom to take out large sums of money in one day. : no withdrawal limit  
I need a non-cash way to pay where credit / debit cards are not accepted. : checking account  
I don't spend much - I like to let my money work for me. : high-interest account  
I need to make sure I don't bounce any checks. : overdraft protection  

# social & cultrue
wisdom intelligence  
endow grant entitle  
selfishness selfness altruistic altruism  egoistic  
universal/concurrent/indiscriminate love; caring; philanthropism  
**Taoism** as a **native-born** religion  
Lao Zi/Tzu Confucius  
eunuch 
primitive/pre-literate/stone age/pal(a)eolithic/neolithic/slave/feudal/capitalism/socialist(m)/communist(m) society  

# weather
weather damage  
typhoon hurricane cyclone  
rainstorm  
crack  
dawn daybreak sunup auroral  
dusk gloaming twilight nightfall sundown  

# Mahjongg / Mahjong
Tile 张 一张麻将牌的牌面  
flower 花 春夏秋冬梅兰竹菊  
honor 字牌(役牌) 东南西北中发白  
suit 花色(配牌) 筒条万  
rank 数字 1~9万  
dragon 箭牌 中发白  中发白
wind  
dot  
bamboo  
character 1~9万  
Spring/Summer Autumn Winter  
Plum Orchid Bamboo Chrysanthemum 梅兰竹菊  
Red Green White Dragon  
East South West North Wind  
Dealer's Wind 门风（自风）  
Prevailing Wind 场风（圈风）  
dealer/banker 庄家  
deal  
die (pl. dice)  
shuffle  
wall 牌强  
stack 牌墩  
board 牌桌  
win 和（胡）牌  
winning tile 和（胡）张  
draw 芜牌（流局），摸牌  
discard 打牌  
ready hand 听牌  
joker 混排（白搭）  
player  
meld 一组  
eyes/pair 将牌（雀头，对子）  
triplet 刻子  
sequence 顺子  
exposed/concealed Kong 明暗杠  
pong kong chow 碰杠吃  
scoring 数番  
points 番数  

# chess
Will you care for a game of chess? 下盘棋么  
Chess is a highly intellectual game?  
In chess... the **pieces** have different and **bizarre motons**  
An adept of chess  内行（的），名手  
expert (in), and old hand at sth, connoisseur, hotshot  
laymen outsider nonprofessional amateur laity  
clergy and laity 神职人员和俗人  
He's bad at chess  
Chess is his favorite **diversion**  
She captured a queen in the chess game.  
I entered a chess competition and finished third.  
In the autumn, when the evenings get longer, I **like nothing better than to** sit down to a game of chess.  
pawn rook/castle knight bishop queen king  
red/black Palace  

* Rooks (R) (or chariorts) : moves as an orthodox Rook.  
* Knight (N) (or horses) : moves one point orthogonally followed by one point outward-diagonally. It may not leap over occupiedpoints.  
* elephants (M) (or bishops or ministers) : moves exactly two points diagonally. It may not leap over occupied points. Also, Elephants are confined to their home side of the river. Due to these limitations, the Elephant can see only server points of the board.  
* mandarins (G) (or advisors or assistants or guards) : The mandarin (or Guard) moves point diagonally. It may never leave the palace.  
* king (K) (or generals) : The king moves as orthodox king, but cannot move diagonally. It may never leave the palace.  
The two kings cannot face each other on an open file. For example, a red king on e1 and a black king on e9, with no piece on the e-file between them, is an illegal position. If either king sits exposed on an open file, the other king may not move to occpy that file.  
* Cannons (Pao) : the cannon move differently when moves to capture than when moves passively
  1. the cannon movespassively as an othodox rook
  1. The Cannnon moves to capture as an orthodox rook which is required to hop over a single screen. In other words, Cannons capture by hoping over as second piece in order to capture a third piece. For example, a Canon on a1 can take a f1 when exactly one of the points b1,c1,d1,or e1 is occupied bya a piece of either color. Cannons only capture when hoping and only hop when, capturing. They man never hop over more thant on piece in a given more.
* Pawns (P) (or soldiers) ： Unlike orthodox Pawns, the Xiangqi pawn's posssive move and capure move are always the same.　Astarting Pawn moves openint straight-froward. A pawn crossing river promotes, keeping its old move and gaining a new move -- a one-point step to either horizontal. Pawns do not promote on the last rank, where they can move onlyu left or right. 

other rules:

1. Red moves first.
1. The game is won by checkmating or stalemating the opponent King.
1. Perpetual check is forbidden. You cannot cehck your opponent more than three times in a row with the same piece and same board positions.
1. You cannot force an enemy piece to move to and from the same two points, indefinitely, in order to avoid capture. If you move a Rook to e5, threatening a Cannon on e6, and your opponent's only viable move is Cannon to f6, then you cannot force that Cannon to and from e6 and f6 by moving your Rook to and form e5 and f5, indefinitely. The purpose of this rule (and the above rule) is to avoid perpetual-check draws. Some of these situations are complicated, but the person who is forcing the perpetual move must ususally break it off.
1. The game is a draw when neither side can force a checkmate or a stalemate.

**jargon**  
board square rank file diagonal center wing(侧翼)  
check checkmate mate  
stalemate 无子可动  
discovered check 闪将 double check 双将 perpetual check 长将 to give check 打将 checkmate 将杀 to give checkmate 杀王  
exchange move capure castling  
game 对局 opening middle game ending  
result 战绩 win loss draw和 resign认输 crosstable 战绩表  
point half a point zero  
analysis 拆棋 position 局面  
novelty 新招 threat attack defence  
variant combination战术组合 sacrifice弃子 mistake错着  
clock棋钟 flag钟旗 time  
timetrouble score sheet envelope  
master participant  
tournament联赛 match对抗赛 olympaid 奥林匹克竞赛 team  
caption队长 country winner champion  
drawing of lots 抽签 number round轮次 to accept a draw 接受和棋  
advantage decisive ~ 决定性优势 material ~ 子力优势 obvious ~ 明显优势 positional ~ 局面优势 development ~出子优势 space ~空间优势 to get advantage 取得优势 to have advantage 拥有优势  
chief arbiter 主裁判 international ~ national ~ 国家裁判  
game of chess 国际象棋对局 law of less 国际象棋规则  
castle v. 王车易位 long castling 长易位 short ~  
center opening 中心开局 cantral gambit 中心弃兵开局 bishops' opening 飞象开局  


# accommodation
property  
guest house  
home stay  
flat/apartment  
studio apartment  
twin/triple/living/dining room  
kitchen diner  
video surveillance  
garage fence /fire gate/ heating  

# diet
refreshmnets/snack  
special food/dietary requirement  
food allergies/ be allergic to  
vegetarian  
seafood  
rotten stale decayed rotting dozy foul tabid putrid  
musty moldy mouldy fusty smelly mildewed  

crisp fragile brittle friable crumbly brash  
slightly spicy  peppery hot
chilli pepper, paprika(red powder of chilli)  
pungent odor/flavor of garlic  
choking smell of sulphur filled the air  
acrid smell of tobacco  
acrid smoke  
penetrating odor of garlic  
irritate the nose, assail one's nostrils /ˈnɒstrɪl/  
leading to spicy eyes tears, uninhabitable  
rare  
medium well half cured cheese  
well done, well-cooked  
sour acid tart  
acidic rancid  
make my batter bitter  
fragrant, cleaning flavour  

celery  
carrot 胡萝卜  
radish turnip 萝卜  
shredded carrot 胡萝卜丝  
sweet patato  
gourd, sponge/towel gourd, loofah   
bamboo shoots/sprout  
leek, fragrant-flowered garlic, (Chinese) chives  
scallion, minced ~ 葱末  
relish, steamed crab sauce, seasoning, dressing, spices, condiment, flavouring 调料  
two teaspoons  
herb  
pea bean, cowpea 梅豆角 
minced meat 肉末  
pickle bean 腌制的豆角（酸的豆角）  
season vegetable 时令蔬菜  
eel, Monopterus albus/alba  
glutinous/sticky/sweet rice  
  
greasy oily rich fat foods   
light/bland/plain/weak/mild/wishy-washky/tastless/flavourless/mediocre/ordinary diet  

garlic bolt/clove  
cicada  
nostalgia(home sick)  
step procedure process 工序  


# tourism
itinerary  
upset the ecological balance  
sightseeing scenery fresh air environment  
climate, famous cuisine, activities  
characteristic(s)
hiking  
slow pace  
tropical weather is usually sunny and warm.  
many outdoor activities  
population  
category  
hometown  
flocks of sheep and cattle  
herds of cattle and sheep  
flocks and herds  
large/small flock  
vast area of green wheat field  
large areas of the endless desert and oasis  
endless/limitless/for miles and miles Arabian Sea  
endless hillside  
A sprawling skyline half the urban area of  
sincere personality  
reservoir dam  
rural life  
plain simple honest unsophisticated serious  
tower pagoda pavilion kiosk bower knoll(小山)  
livestock, poultry domestic fowl/animal  
crops emblement  
The land on **hilltops** and **hillsides** was all cropped  
They **leveled** the **hillock** to flat ground and grow crops.
criket mantis  
seven spotted lady beetle, ladybird, ladybug, coccinella septempunctata  
live in harmoy/peace, be/live on friendly term with ..., live amicably with sb, get along  
tent pavilion  

# insects
tadpole moth housefly larva parasite colonize  
centipede cicada moth 
cocoon 蛹    

# good words
historical historic history  
economical economic economy  
rhetorical rhetoric  

hollow empty : feel body emptied/hollowed  
hallow devine  

emperor imperial empirical  

A revenge B on/against C by doing sth : A 为B 向C 复仇  
muddle: ~ along aimlessly day to day; ~ through a year  
footle dawdle  
muddle  
wit, petty trick/shrewdness   

likely possible probable maybe perhaps  
achievable potential doable feasible  

client tenant customer  

deisel, dawn of feminism, inexpensive
guzzle  

be on lunch break  
it's **siesta** time  
two hours lunch break  
during lunch break  
**shorten** the noon break **into** half an hour  

One good turn deserves another 礼尚往来  
It could be worse 可能更糟  
out of the darkness 冲出黑暗  
across the Channel 横渡英吉利海峡  
everything except weather 唯独没有考虑到天气  
over the South Pole 飞越南极  
through the forest 穿越深林  
a clear consience 问心无愧  
Aken for a ride 乘车兜风  
reward for virtue 对美誉的称赞  
sticky finger 黏糊的手指  
a blessing in disguise 因祸得福  
in or out 进去还是出去  
trouble with the Hubble 哈勃望远镜的困难    
Jumbo versus the police 小象对警察  
out of the limelight 舞台之外  
APRIL FOOLS' DAY  
after election(大选) on strike(罢工)  
never too old to learn 活到老学到老  
out of control, a perfect alibi 好证据  trapped in a miie 困在矿井里  a slip of the tongue 口误  ask for trouble 自寻烦恼  a noble gift 高尚的礼物  

It would be my pleasure/honor  
It's a great honor for me to take part in (participate) the game/contest/match.  
Will you **grace** our party **with** your presence  
conflit evolution struggle for **institutional power** At a superficial level permeate core concept resonance notion at odds particularism emphasis on distinguish  
collision resulting from material and ideaology  
pursuit of happiness **inalienable right** /endowed by /self-evident /be born with /**mutable** characteristics  

chunking your language (can chunk be verb ?)  
hide-and-seek  
be short of cash  
remember to mute your microphone when you're not speaking  
As you know I got ladi off last week and I'm a little low on cash.  
I'm having trouble making rent  
help sb out  
help with that  
turn to/ask sb for money/help  
Shakespear said, 'Neither a **borrower** or a **lender** be.' 

Due to the economic situation, how has the **lending industry** changed in the last few years?  
rely on him a lot  

banned from; forbidden to (sleep over at friend's house) 
free/allowed to  
forced/made to  
rules for teenagers  
observe a curfew  
chore sleepover  

accept and reject/refuse/turn down invitation  
How about when you wanna **turn down** the **invitation**?  
Would you say the same things to a **business contact**?  
Do you **use** any of these phrases **to respond to** a friend's invitation?  

* Thanks, I'd love to.
* Thank you, I'd be honored. It would be my hornor/pleasure.
* I'll have to **take a rain check**.
* That's really nice of you, but I've made other plans.

Which of these phrases are appropriate in a more **formal setting**?
Would you like to join me for dinner tonight?  
I'm going to a **networking event** this weekend. Would you like to **join me**?  
You are talking with your best friend about your plans for the weekend.  
A: Invite B to join you in a **social activity**.  
B: Respond to A's invitation appropriately.  
Sounds great! I'll have to **take a rain check**.

novice  
volume ['vɑljum] value ['vælju]  
bandit bully; treat sb.   
sleep in 睡懒觉，睡过头  
sleep late at night, wake up late in the morning  

cliche  
ambiguous obscure vague murky dim swimmy faint intangible  


foundation  
incentive motivation(al)  
speculate  
possibility  
one child policy  
megacity  
council estate 廉租房  
resonate my spirit  
blend life 融入社会  
city's hustle and bustle 城市喧嚣  
accessible and approachable  
speak with awareness  
centipede viber king cobra  

category | words
:---|:---
emotion | release my pessure, refresh mind, cheer me up, lift up my spirit, recharge myself, escape from reality, get away from boring
health | keep fit, burn calories, work out, build my body, stretch out, keep a good shape, lose weight, avoid **sedentary** lifestyle
P2P | boost bonds, expand social circle, follow someone's footsteps
career | promising, hightly demanded, extend my own limits
cost | affordable and resonable, money-saving, well-paid job, decent salary
efficiency | time/labor-saving, handy
quality | 提高: foster, improve, boost,enchance,promote,hone<br>能力的提高：creativity and imagination, hands-on ability, problem-sovling, leadership, interpersonal communication skill, teamwork spirit, independence, survial skill, eye-hand coordination, sense beauty, broaden horizons, acquire knowledge, enrich life experience, absorb information, body coordination
safety | lead a stable life, hygienic and sanitary, trustwothy, reliable, dependable

**Do you have a cush on idioms?**  
love you to the moon and back  
Tie the knot 喜結連理  
Get dumped 把誰甩了  
Blind date  
Love to pieces  
double date  
fall for someone 拜倒某人裙下  
find Mr right  
This infographic is a *labor of love* by ESL-Library.  
Please enjoy and share this with your colleagues and students  
pop the question  
go dutch  

undesirable negative  
report 说明文(翻译的不是很精确，近似)  
argumentation 议论文  

dupe :  
v, to persuade or induce sb to do sth by trickery or deception  
n, an object of trickery or deceit  
scenario [səˈnɛrioʊ]  
It's easy to construct a scenario in which each keep issuing a sequence of proposals with increasing number, none of which are ever chosen.  

heartless ruthless worthless endless mindless harmless senseless pointless meaningless reckless stainless  

aerial serial  
**caustic** mean  
put a seal on the box  
removal removable fixed  

hammock: a bed consisting of a long piece of cloth or net tied at each end to posts or trees  
hanger  
cuddle hug  
a global icon  
endangered/vulnerable list  

A loss of **habitats** was that caused the number of pandas to drop to just over 1,200 in the 1980s, according to Mr Hilton-Taylor.  

recall retrospect recollect aftertaste  
recollect the pleasant flavor of  
call sth to mind  

reluctant(ly) unwilling(ly)  
concede compromise yield 让步  

# movie / film / cinema
genre : action swordmen romantic affectional sci-fi (satire remantic)comedy tragedy silent cartoon fantasy(幻想，奇幻) horror (psychopathic)thriller(惊悚) drama ethical/morality literary detective erotic(情色) western documentary newsreel adventure(人物) war crime costume period (古装) Hard-Core Porno, Adult, Porno, Nudie(Nudie-Cutie), dirty  (黄)  weepie vampire teen preteen nostalgia time-travel  

dialog subtitle banned   
original version  
first/second-run cinema  
the spice of life 生活的调味品   
close-up close shot 特写 近景 medium/long/full shot 中/远/全景  
background 背景  footage 影片长度 title 片名  
premiere 首映式 distributor 发行人 board of censors 审查署   
frame 镜头  
release 上映  
fade out/in  淡入/出  
stunt = special effect  
slow motion 慢镜头  
set stage floor 场地 properties props 道具  
scene 场景 scenery 布景 sound effect 音效 shoot 拍摄 exterior 外景 lighting 灯光 dubbing 配音  soundtrack 音带 showing screening projection 放映  
** cast
star lead 主角 double stand-in 替身 stunt man 特技替身 extra， walker-on 临时 extra 客串 film actor/actress 男女明星 support 配角 character人物，角色 util 跑龙套  

stagehand 化妆师 director, assistant director  

invincible matchless unbeatable inspirational 
stagecoach  
gangster bandit brigand  
apprentice  
great/grand master/ace  
martial arts  
revenge sb on sb by 
see with one's own eys, witness, behold  
duel n v dual   
fascinating attractive plot climax finale  
The action of film takes place in Italy  

# music
scale diapason range chord lyrics score(乐谱) orchestra conductor time/bar/tempo rhythm bass pitch loudness(响度) duration(时值) timbre(tone color or quality) (音色) pure tone(纯音) solo band choir(choral society) vibraton sound tone musical ~ noise(嗓音) acoustics(声学) psychoacoustics(心理声学) frequency intensity wave form 波形 symphony  
division into measures or bars 节拍将音乐分成拍子和小节的分切  
Vary a musical tempo 改变音乐节拍  
The audience swayed to the music 听众随着音乐的节拍摇摆着身体  
traditional classical light dacing pop folk(民间) country(乡村) Jazz rock-&-roll(摇滚) blues(布鲁斯，蓝调) swing(摇摆乐) campus songs(校园歌曲) civic ballad(民谣) national (民族音乐) folk songs(民歌) art songs(艺术歌曲)  

black blue 忧郁的  
melodious  悠扬的  
pleasant   悦耳的  
relaxing   令人放松的  
soulful    充满热情的  

heavy metal 重金属音乐  
lyrics     歌词  
pop rock   流行摇滚  
beat       节拍  
composition 音乐作品  
melody     旋律  
natinal anthem 国歌  
rhyme    韵律  
tempo    拍子，音乐速度  

bazaar 市集  
The tune goes like this. 那曲调大致是这样的  
disparity 不一致  

# sound
moo [mu:] 哞哞声 牛叫声  
baa [bɑ:, b?] 咩（羊叫声）  
hiss [his] （蛇）嘶嘶声  
mew [mju:] 猫叫声  
buzz [b?z] （蜜蜂等） 嗡嗡声  
quack [kw?k] （鸭子）嘎嘎叫  

* 猫 “喵呜”“喵呜”象声词miaow mew来表达。或pur“咕噜、咕噜”
* A cat miaows /mews/purrs.
* 狗 bark有“犬吠”“树皮”的意思 yap(汪汪叫)(“吵嚷”)。另外yelp和snarl也是常用来形容狗叫的。
* A dog yaps/ yelps/ barks/ snarls.狗吠。
* A duck quacks.鸭子叫。
* quack还指 “江湖医生，庸医。
* A cock crows.公鸡啼。
* 苍蝇嗡啊嗡，蚊子哼啊哼：buzz(嗡嗡)hum(哼哼)
* A fly hums/ buzzes/ drones.苍蝇“嗡嗡”叫。
* A bee/ mosquito hums/ buzzes.蜂/蚊子“嗡嗡”叫。
* hum除了尤指蜜蜂发“嗡嗡”(a continuous buzz)声，发“哼哼”声外，还指人“闭嘴哼唱”，如：hum a song 哼一首歌。
* A chick cheeps/ pips/ pules/ peeps.小鸡“叽叽”叫。
* A bird/ sparrow twitters /chirps/ chirrups.鸟/麻雀“唧唧喳喳”叫。
* A rat squeaks.耗子“唧唧”叫。
* A mouse squeaks/ peeps.老鼠“吱吱”叫。
* A calf/lamb/goat bleats.小牛/小羊/山羊叫。
* A sheep bleats/ baas.绵羊"咩咩"叫。
* An ass/donkey brays。驴叫。
* A wild - goose honks.雁鸣。
* As she drove past, she **honked the horn**.
* 她开车经过时，按了喇叭。可想而知大雁的声音是怎么样的了。
* Bellow指公牛吼叫，“巨大**低沉的**吼声”(a loud **deep hollow** sound)。也可以用在人身上，如：to bellow (out) with excitement/pain兴奋得/痛得大声吼叫，to bellow (out) orders 意思是大声发出命令。“Go away!” He bellowed。“滚开!”他吼叫道。
* A crow caws /craoks.乌鸦叫。
* A crane whoops.鹤叫。
* A magpie chatters.喜鹊“嘁嘁喳喳”叫。
* A nightingale jugs.夜莺叫。
* A frog croaks.青蛙“呱呱”叫。
* A goose cackles/ gaggles.鹅“嘎嘎”叫。
* A dove/ pigeon coos/ croods/ croodles.鸽子“咕咕”叫。
* A bear/bull bellows.熊/公牛吼叫。
* An elephant trumpets.大象吼叫。
* A fox yelps.狐狸叫。
* A lion roars.狮吼。
* A monkey screeches/ chatters/ gibbers.猴子“喳喳”叫。
* A snake hisses.蛇嘶嘶。
* A tiger growls.虎咆哮。
* A turkey gobbles.火鸡叫。
* A whale blows.鲸啸。
* A wolf howls.狼嚎

1. 硬币、钥匙碰撞的声音：**jingle**
Babies are always excited at the jingle of keys. 婴儿总是对钥匙碰撞的声音感到兴奋。
2. 点击鼠标的声音：**click**
Clicks of mouse echo in the room. 鼠标的点击声回荡在房间里。
3. 下雨的声音：**pitter-patter**
I was disturbed by he pitter-patter of rain on the roof. 屋顶上淅淅沥沥的雨声扰乱了我的思绪。
4. 风刮到书上的簌簌之声：**rustle**
The rustle of leaves catches his attention. 树叶簌簌的声音让他警觉。
5. 飞机螺旋桨转动的声音：**whirr**
The deafening whirr of helicopter simple drives people crazy.震耳欲聋的直升机螺旋桨声简直让人发疯。
6. 海浪拍击礁石的声音：**splash**
I enjoy the splash of sea waves crashing against the rocks. 我喜欢听海浪拍击在礁石上发出的声音。
7. 汽车发动机的轰鸣声：**zoom**
The zoom of the powerful engine is one of most melodious sounds to some people. 大马力发动机的轰鸣声对于某些人而言是世界上最悦耳的声音之一。
8. 烤肉时滋滋的声音：**sizzle**
The sizzle of steak is more appealing to people’s appetite instead of steak itself. 煎牛排的滋滋声比牛排本身更吸引人的胃口。
9. 收银机打开的声音（也可以表示金钱落袋的声音）：**ka-ching**
When I talk about the bull market in recent days, do you hear the sound “ka-ching”? 当我谈到最近牛市的事情，听到很多金币落袋的声音了吗？
10. 肚子咕咕叫：**grumble**
My stomach grumbles. 我肚子都饿得咕咕叫了。

highest tone
Airy：  轻 
Sheen： 有光泽；高于16KHz的高频信号，通常难以完整重放，或重放为嘶声
Tizzy： 乱；12～6KHz之间抬高，可能加重铙钹等乐器的高阶谐频效果 
Hard：  硬； Metallic：金属声； Brittle：脆； 高频金属声，通常在8～16Hz之间抬高 Bright：亮； Brilliant：明亮； Glassy：玻璃声； 4～8KHz之间抬高 Sibilance：丝丝声； 5～7KHz

middle-high tone 
Crisp：松脆； 3～4KHz Presence：现场感； 2KHz 
Honky：浅色的； 由中高音号筒式扬声器发出， 600～800Hz之间。 Chesty：胸音；200～400Hz抬高，增强了男声效果 
Boxy：箱子声；歌手的声音好像是从箱子内部透出来的。设计成方形的音箱能够增强这个效果，频率为250～450Hz 
Woddy：树皮声；中低频大型扬声器的谐振频率 

# feeling
assertive: having or showing a confident and **personality** and is not afraid to say waht they want or believe.  
accusatory - suggesting that you think someone has done something bad.  
accusatory - a statment saying that someone has done something **morally** wrong, illegal, or unkind, or the fact of accusing someone.  
I wish that I would/could ...  
I feel **frustrated** ...  
Assertive communicating means acknowledging the other person's point of view and explaining clearly why you disagree. It can involve saying what you think, but it is often followed by offering constructive suggestions. Assertive speakers generally speak in an even tone of voice and use more 'I' statement('I feel frustrated when ...')and fewer 'you' accusations.  
Change these 'you' accusations into 'I' statements.  
Your work is **disorganized**.  
Where did you learn to drive? Look what you've done to my car!  
You are **working on** a project **with** your colleague, but things aren't going very smoothly.  
to do a fair share of the work  
**take too much control of** the project.  
I feel frustrated about the way our project is going.  
I would like to **see more collabortion**.  

# workout & figure
Apollo's Belt  V-cut abs  V line abs  
firm abs (abdominal muscles)  
six-pack  
metabolism  
metabolize  
photosynthesis  
metaphor analogy comparison parable  
metamorphism metamorphosis  
quantitative/qualitative change    
aerobic exercise (cardio)  
anaerobic execrise (lift)  
pecs (pectoralis)  
lats (latissimus dorsi)  
abdominal  
inhale  
exhale  
limbs (arms and legs)  
thigh calf  
upper/fore arms  

# office dress code
go to work wearing a sarong, shirt and tie.  
Do you think he is **adhering** to the ~?  
adhere to the following:  

1. Dress must be smart -- both male and female members of staff are enoughed to wear suits.
1. Men should wear ties.
1. Women's skirts must be **below the knee** in length.
1. Jewelry should be minimal. For instance, women may wear only **one set of earrings** and a small, **discreet(unsssuming,not flashy)** necklace.
1. **Tattoos** should not be visible.

Jim was given a formal warning regarding his dress in the workplace.  
sandals slippers  
Why this matter needs to be discussed **in the first place**.  
What do you call me here for?  
I'm danger of being fired.  
wear a **bowtie** to work  
consider dress code **discrimination**.  
asked questions to help **clarify** the dress code  
in the employee manual  

# computer
setting up an **apex** domain  
gibberish, messy code  
spam, junk mail
pseudo  
cooperative/preemptive multitasking timeslice  
yield  
Rotating Staircase Deadline scheduler (RSDL)  
CFS scheduler (un)interruptable  
priority prioritise prioritisation(优先化)  
prior (to) 之前,优先, preferential  
processor affinity   
maintainer canonical descriptor indenfification traced spawn lightweight   
general purpose register  
monolithic kernel  
miscellaneous device  
anticipatory - heuristic  
CFQ Complete Fair Queuing  
noop  
The engine has **seized up** and stopped.  
(Moving machinery) become **stuck or jammed** because of overheating, etc

# kitchen
automatic rice cooker 电饭锅  
meat grinder 绞肉机  
pail bucket  
bamboo steamer 蒸笼  
hatcher 柴刀 chopping knife 菜刀  
kitchen cabinet 餐具柜  
toaster  
larder 食品柜  
egg beater  
dustpan 
kettle whistling ~ teapot  
draining board (drainboard) cutting board  
corkscrew bottle cap opener  
cooker stove microwave boiler  
(stew) pot conver lid handle 'frying pan' pessure cooker/valve  
pancake turner turning utensile  
wok electric wok ladle  
rolling pin  
apron  
exhaust fan 抽风机  
swab broom litter sweeper  
ventilator 抽油烟机  
sprinkler 洒水器  
disposable lunch boxes disposable carton  
tableware 餐具  
cupboard 碗橱  
kitchen ware  
household utensils  
cooker  
cookware  
music musical composition melody  
brige the generation gap between us  

# story 
superstition and belief  
superstitious, old wives tale, urban legend  
soul ghost  
naughty stir up trouble  
four leaves clover  
black crow  
It's claimed/alleged that ...  
Rumor has it ...  
What happened to the hitchhiker?  
Did you hear about the man who picked up a hitchhiker?  
No. What happened?  
Well, they claim that a man stopped for a hitchhiker late one night and offered to give her a lift. When he stopped at a gas station, she had vanished! Just like that. People say that you can still see her ghost hitchhiking on the old road. It's alleged that she died in a car crash at that spot ...  
Can you think of a more realistic explanation for what happened?  
> urban legend: a modern story of uncertain origin describing an event that supposedly happened to a real person  
traffic accident, flying saucer, alien  

# composition
- inforamtion 1/4
- language 2/4
- structure 1/4

**Mass car owenship** in many cities has become a concern to many people. How should we change the situation if you think it leads to **undersirable consequence**?


Mass car ownership clearly has a number of undersirable consequences for people's health and fitness **as well as** for the environment and community life generally. Nevertheless, owning a car is still seen as **a desirable option** to many. Although this trend might **seem irreversible** so far, there is much that can be done to discourage unnecessary car use.

One possible **approach** is to make cars expensive to own and use, for example, by **taxing** them at the point of purchase or annually through a road tax. Certain types of car use, for instance short journeys within already congested cities, can also be discouraged through road pricing strategies. However, these **punitive measure alone** are unlikely to have a major impact unless **alternative** means of trasport are available.

A more effective method that governments could take in busy cities is to encourage the use of public transport. This means that transport options have to be plentiful, convenient and reliable and people need to be able to **afford them**. Beside, governments should **run campaigns** to encourage people to be less dependent on their cars.

To sum up, the trend towards rising car ownership and use need to be changed. People should be encouraged to use other means of transport and investment in practical alternatives is what is needed above all.

## oral - conversation - lending and borrowing
A: Hey, can I **speak to you in private** for a second?  
B: Sure, what's up, Everything ok?  
A: Actually, as you know I **got laid off** last month and I'm **a little low on cash**. I **hate to have to but** could I borrow some money from you?  
B: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. Sure thing, how much do you need?  
A: Well, I've been **having trouble making rent**. Would you mind lending me 600$?  
B: Six hundred dollars? **I wish I could help, but** I really don't have that kind of money.  
A: I understand that's a lot to ask. But do you think you could spare, **say**, 300$?  
B: Yeah, I can **help with** that.  
A: That means a lot. Thank you so much!  
B: **No need to** thank me - that's what friends are for. 

Four Loko known as "**blackout**"  
make its way to China  
a fruit-flavoured alcoholic beverage with a least 12% alcohol content  
remove from stores 下架  
ingredients elements  
It's picked up stream in recent months in China  (boost prevelance spark a hot discussion popular)  
Some people claim the combination makes it particularly potent(strong powerful) and can make people black out(断片) after drink just on can.  
Yet my face isn't flushed and my heart isn't pounding.  
sober drunk  
The fruity flavours hide the taste of the alcohole  
With police officials and state media taking to social media to warn against the health risks, and urging people ot be careful.  
You should be alert and stay away from her  
Consuming alcohol is considered esential at many business dinners and wedding banquets, and toasting(敬酒) and drinking with others is considered as a sign of respect.  
be very conductive(有利的) to a lot of competitive drinking  
Helen (not her real name), a lawyer who makes frequent business trips to mainland China, says:" A business meeting will usually be followed by a business." It's mostly **to give 'face' to** potential business partners  

# phrases in reading
fulfil the civic/civil role  
fulfil : achieve, bear out, accomplish, carry out, execute, go through with, see through  
go all out to fulfil the task  
paramount vital supreme utmost chief top overriding principal dominant  

ability of grabbing noun  
choice question during 3s when locating words appearing  
cloze, filling-in-blank : maybe answer in front of the locating words  


# market
survey tartan striped laid 
minority [maɪ'nɔrəti] minimal  
a large amount, the vast majority, in most cases, a substantial number  
a small amount, a tiny portion, in a few instances, only a handful, a small minority, in a couple of cases  
approximatly, roughly, something like  
more than, over half, in excess of  
less than, just under  
reporting survey findings  
Being able to present information is a key keyskill in the workplace. Take a survey in class and practice reporting **back** the results.  
plaid: material with a pattern of different-colored straight lines crossing one another at 90-degree angles: also knwo as tartan.  
just under half were wearing white.  
A small minority were wearing plaid.  
Roughly one quater were wearing bule.  
take survey.  
use phrases to describe the results of a survey.  
How can you make **the results of a survey** sound different than they actually are?  
dorminate/capture/take over/expand/enlarge/extending the market (share)  
be in a leading position / 
win a good reputation / win sb's nice prise / earn praise from cooperated partner  
integrity-based, customer first  
fine example 精品  
quality awareness, quality consciousness, a sense of service  
build (up) a good image, be sure to "foster strengths and **circumvent** weaknesses" 良好形象，扬长避短  
user-centered innovation 以用户为中心的创作 user-oriented, service-oriented adj, be much more user oriented     
推陈出新  
stunt gimmick: a bit of ~ 噱头 sales ~ 销售噱头 public ~ 公关噱头; tricks meant to deceive  

# where practising oral English
native speaker : "meet and speak" spoken club: 35/30 RMB/Hour www.meetandspeak.org 情有独钟咖啡馆 from douban.com  tina的同城 https://www.douban.com/location/people/3951944/  

# 10 amazing translations
“音近” “形近” “意近” “拍案叫绝” [ref] (http://chuansong.me/n/439581342659)  

* fool you 忽悠
* Damn Single 单身狗
* No Z-turn 不折腾
* as busy as bee 忙的一笔
* Go Believe 狗不理
* Smell smelly, taste tasty 闻着臭 吃着香
* A fall into the pit, a gain in your wit. 吃一堑 长一智
* Thank you for... well...nothing. 让我感谢你 赠我空欢喜
* Like a dog, like a god. 突然有了软肋 又突然有了铠甲
* Fuck the world if you're rich. Otherwise, go fuck yourself. 穷则独善其身 达则兼济天下

American famous/well-known remark/saying

* He kept us out of war
* return to normalcy
* A chicken in every pot and a car in every garage
* I propose a New Deal 新政 **be in (hold) power** 16 years
* Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.
* All the way with LBJ
* Are you better off than you were four years ago?
* Kinder, Gentler Nation
* Make American Great Again! Stronger Together!

Subsume successive suburbs into its maw.

Apple  \<\<think different>>  1997 advertisement  
Here's to the carzy ones.  
The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers.  
The round pegs in the square holes.  
The ones who see things differently.  
They're not fond of rules.  
And they have no respect for the status quo.  
You can quote them, disgree with them, glorify or vilify them.  
About the only thing you can't do is to ignore them.  
Because they change things.  
They push the human race forward.  
And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius.  
Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.   
stay hungry, stay foolish  

To who with dreams: do not let the harsh reality shatter the dream that takes roots in your heart.  

interpretation, comb  
1) here's to：这是一个敬酒时的称呼。比方说下次你在一个宴会上，要向某人或某事敬酒，就可以用这个表达。Here's to friendship. 为友谊干杯  
2) misfits, rebels, trouble makers：乔布斯用这些貌似贬义的词汇来描述伟人。实质是赞美他们身上的那种与众不同的精神。misfits（不合群的人，mis-错误；fits-合适），rebels（叛逆者），trouble makers（麻烦制造者）  
3) round pegs in the square holes：这个表达跟上面的三个词属于一类，就是描述那些和平庸“格格不入”的人。round peg：圆形木桩，square holes：方型孔  
4) see things differently：用不同的方式去看待问题  
5) be fond of：喜欢；They are not fond of rules：他们不喜欢墨守成规  
6) have no respect for：不尊重  
7) status quo：现状。这是拉丁词汇。英文中有很多拉丁词汇，再比如：vice versa（反之亦然）；have no respect for vice versa就是：不安于现状（措辞超级赞！）  
8) push...forward：推着...向前；push the human race forward：推动人类进步  
9) while置于句首表示“虽然”：While some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius.  
10) do指代前文中的动作：最后一句话中的do指代前句中的“change the world”  

# introduce yourself
greeting. who are you? why are you coming here? what is the hope?  
greeting:

* good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
* I'm very happy to be here with all of you.
* Thank you for giving me such a great opportunity to introduce myself.

who?

* Well ~
* My name is __
* And you can call me __ , if you like

why?

* Well ~
* Today I'm here for a chance to work/study in your company/school.
* You know what? It has been my dream to be part of you, for your company/school is an amazing place, which could bring us yong people a bright future.

hope?

* Finally, in days to come, I hope that we wil get along and learn from each other.
* `Finally, I hope that my dream will come true
* `I will never let you down.
* `Thank you very much.

## example:  
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I’m very happy to be here with all of you. Thank you for giving me such a great opportunity **to present myself**.  
Well, may name is xuhailong, and you can call me Michael if you like. I am from Beijing, China. It is a wonderful **tourist city**. If you have a chance to visit my hometown, I will be glad to **show you around**.
 
Well, today I’m here for a chance to work in your company. You know what? **It has been my dream to be a part of you**, for your company is an amazing place which could **bring us young people a bright future**.   
Finally, I hope that my dream will come true. I will never **let you down**. Thank you.

# listening
distortion cliff architect curve trademark **self access room** cigar luggage pack peak volcanic  
central  

# spoken
You are looking sharp/great 精神好  
be in a good spirit  
feel energetic  
be full of spirit. lack ~  
have good mood / be in good mood  
be very fresh  
All the family are flourishing  
How is your health coming on?  
There is no ginger in him  
He has no mercury in him  
You always know the right thing to say 你说话总是很得体  

# interview-youself
Mature，dynamic and honest 思想成熟、精明能干、为人诚实  
Excellent ability of systematical management 有极强的系统管理能力  
Ability to work independent1y，mature and resourcefu1 能够独立工作、思想成熟、应变能力强  
A person with ability plus flexibility should app1y 需要有能力及适应力强的人  
A stable personality and high sense of responsibility are desirable 个性稳重、具高度责任感  
Work well with a multi-cultural and diverse work force 能在不同文化和工作人员的背景下出色工作  
Bright，aggressive applicants 反应快、有进取心的应聘者  
Ambitious attitude essential 有雄心壮志  
Initiative，independent and good communication skill 积极主动独立能力强，并有良好交际技能  
Willing to work under pressure with leardership quality 愿意在压力下工作，并具领导素质  
Willing to assume responsibilities 应聘者须勇于挑重担  
Mature，self-motivated and strong interpersonal skills 思想成熟、上进心强，并具极丰富的人际关系技巧  
Energetic，fashion-minded person 精力旺盛、思想新潮  
With a pleasant mature attitude 开朗成熟  
Strong determination to succeed 有获得成功的坚定决心  
Strong leadership skills 有极强的领导艺术  
Ability to work well with others 能够同他人一道很好地工作  
Highly-motivated and reliable person with excellent health and pleasant personality 上进心强又可靠者，并且身体健康、性格开朗  
The ability to initiate and operate independently 有创业能力，并能独立地从业  
Strong leadership skill while possessing a great team spirit 有很高的领导艺术和很强的集体精神  
Be highly organized and effecient 工作很有条理，办事效率高  
Willing to learn and progress 肯学习进取  
Good presentation skills 有良好的表达能力  
Positive active mind essential 有积极、灵活的头脑  
Ability to deal with personnel at all levels effectively 善于同各种人员打交道  
Have positive work attitude and be willing and able to work diligently without supervision 有积极的工作态度，愿意和能够在没有监督的情况下勤奋地工作  
Young，bright，energetic with strong career-ambition 年轻、聪明、精力充沛，并有很强的事业心  
Good people management and communication skills. Team player 有良好的人员管理和交际能力。能在集体中发挥带头作用  
Able to work under high pressure and time limitation 能够在高压力下和时间限制下进行工作  
Be elegant and with nice personality 举止优雅、个人性格好  
With good managerial skills and organizational capabilities 有良好的管理艺术和组织能力  
The main qualities required are preparedness to work hard, ability to learn, ambition and good health 主要必备素质是吃苦耐劳精神好、学习能力优、事业心强和身体棒  
Having good and extensive social connections 具有良好而广泛的社会关系  
Being active, creative and innonative is a plus 思想活跃、有首创和革新精神尤佳  
With good analytical capability 有较强的分析能力  
  
